feat(action): Add Github action for chaos engineering in Kubernetes (#1)
mayadata-io/github-chaos-actions: README.md

# Github Action for Chaos Engineering in Kubernetes

This action provides a way to perform different chaos engineering experiments in the Kubernetes environment. It contains Litmus Chaos experiments to run the chaos and find the weakness in the system. For more details about chaos engineering in Kubernetes using Litmus visit <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/next/getstarted.html"> litmus-docs </a>.

## Pre-requisites

Kubernetes 1.11 or later.

> ## Overview.

Reviewer: Lets add reference to action usage example for each exp

Reviewer: chaos action over "experiment". We are not providing users ability for users to specify exit checks

There are number of chaos experiments that can be performed using this github action you can find the experiments under experiment folder. These experiments are:

> - **Pod Delete**:  This experiment causes (forced/graceful) pod failure of random replicas of an application deployment. It tests deployment sanity (replica availability & uninterrupted service) and recovery workflows of the application pod. Visit <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/pod-delete"> pod delete docs</a> for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Pod Delete**:  This experiment causes random (forced/graceful) pod failure of  application deployment replicas. It tests deployment sanity (high availability & uninterrupted service) and recovery workflows of the application pod. Visit <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/pod-delete"> pod delete docs</a> for more info.
```

> - **Container Kill**: This experiment executes SIGKILL on container of random replicas of an application deployment. It tests the deployment sanity (replica availability & uninterrupted service) and recovery workflows of an application. Visit <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/container-kill"> container kill docs</a> for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Container Kill**: This experiment executes SIGKILL on container of random replicas of an application deployment. It tests the deployment sanity (high availability & uninterrupted service) and recovery workflows of an application. Visit <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/container-kill"> container kill docs</a> for more info.
```

> - **Node CPU Hog**: This experiment causes CPU resource exhaustion on the Kubernetes node. The experiment aims to verify resiliency of applications whose replicas may be evicted on account on nodes turning unschedulable (Not Ready) due to lack of CPU resources. Visit <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/node-cpu-hog"> node cpu hog docs</a> for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Node CPU Hog**: This experiment causes CPU resource exhaustion on the Kubernetes node. The experiment aims to verify resiliency of applications which operate under resource constraints wherein replicas may sometimes be evicted on account on nodes turning unschedulable (Not Ready) due to lack of CPU resources. Visit <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/node-cpu-hog"> node cpu hog docs</a> for more info.
```

> - **Node Memory Hog**: This experiment causes Memory exhaustion on the Kubernetes node. The experiment aims to verify resiliency of applications whose replicas may be evicted on account on nodes turning unschedulable due to lack of Memory resources. Visit <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/node-memory-hog"> node memory hog docs</a> for more info.

Reviewer: same as above

- **Pod CPU Hog**: This experiment causes CPU resource consumption on specified application containers by starting one or more md5sum calculation process on the special file /dev/zero. It Can test the application's resilience to potential slowness/unavailability of some replicas due to high CPU load. Visit <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/pod-cpu-hog"> pod cpu hog docs</a> for more info.

- **Pod Memory Hog**: This experiment causes Memory resource consumption on specified application containers by using dd command which will used to consume memory of the application container for certain duration of time. It can test the application's resilience to potential slowness/unavailability of some replicas due to high Memory load. Visit <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/pod-memory-hog"> Pod Memory hog docs</a> for more info.

> - **Pod Network Corruption**: Inject network packet corruption into application pod. Visit <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/pod-network-corruption"> pod network corruption docs</a> for more info.

Reviewer: format of this para seems different from others. Lets maintain a uniform pattern

- **Pod Network Latency**: This experiment causes flaky access to application replica by injecting network delay using pumba. It injects latency on the specified container by starting a traffic control (tc) process with netem rules to add egress delays. It Can test the application's resilience to lossy/flaky network. Visit pod <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/pod-network-latency"> network latency docs</a> 

- **Pod Network Loss**: This experiment injects chaos to disrupt network connectivity to kubernetes pods.The application pod should be healthy once chaos is stopped. It causes loss of access to application replica by injecting packet loss using pumba. Visit <a href="https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/pod-network-loss"> pod network loss docs</a>

> ## Run a chaos experiment using this action

Reviewer: Wondering if this should be the beginning of the readme and "select experiment" should lead into above explanations?

- **Select experiment**: Select an experiment from experiment folder which you want to use. Get the details of how to run the experiment there only. A sample pod delte experiment workflow is shown here.

## Usage

`.github/workflows/main.yml`

```yaml
name: CI

on:
  push:
    branches: [ master ]

jobs:
  build:
    
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@master
      
    - name: Running Litmus pod delete chaos experiment
      uses: mayadata-io/github-choas-actions@master
      env:
        KUBE_CONFIG_DATA: ${{ secrets.KUBE_CONFIG_DATA }}
        ##If litmus is not installed
        INSTALL_LITMUS: true
        ##Give application info under chaos
        APP_NS: default
        APP_LABEL: run=nginx
        APP_KIND: deployment
        EXPERIMENT_NAME: pod-delete
        ##Custom image can also been used
        EXPERIMENT_IMAGE: litmuschaos/ansible-runner:latest        
        TOTAL_CHAOS_DURATION: 30
        CHAOS_INTERVAL: 10
        FORCE: false
        ##Select true if you want to uninstall litmus after chaos

>         LITMUS_CLEANUP: true

Reviewer: How can we contract this list of tunables? wdyt

```

> ## Secrets

Reviewer: Can we place this section in a pre-requisites file and link from here ? README should be purely steps/action - and these preparatory/auxiliary info should be separated out.

# Github Action for Chaos Engineering in Kubernetes

> 

Author: This README will be displayed in the marketplace please help me to improve this if I'm missing something. @ksatchit
